_pages/project.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: The Project
subtitle: A five-year investigation into the role of class dynamics in the emergence, nature, and development of ancient Greek democracy.
permalink: /project/
---

## Introduction

This project aims to put class at the centre of the historical reconstruction of ancient Greek democracy. It contends that class struggle — grounded in the economic relations and occupational structures of the Greek cities, and manifesting itself in the social, political, and cultural oppositions that characterised them — is fundamental to our understanding of Greek democracy.

This perspective finds much purchase in our Classical and Hellenistic sources, both in the direct evidence for political struggle and in contemporary reflections on Greek politics and democracy. The struggle between the rich and the poor for dominance lies at the heart of Aristotle's analysis of Greek politics, with further, complex subdivisions based on occupation determining for him the precise nature of constitutional forms.

<div class="highlight-box">
<p>For this keen observer of the politics of his day, thinking about Greek politics in terms of class was indispensable. It is therefore surprising that class has been all but abandoned as an explanatory concept by most modern scholars of ancient Greek politics.</p>
</div>

It is this project's contention that a more flexible and integrated notion of class, informed both by the best Marxist historiography (especially the work of E.P. Thompson) and by the best work in sociology (especially Pierre Bourdieu's approach), allows us to put this concept back where Aristotle placed it: at the heart of the analysis of ancient Greek politics and society.

## Objectives

The project aims to re-establish the centrality of class dynamics in Greek politics and society through engaging with other disciplines and integrating disparate scholarly trends into a new picture of the development, nature, and discourses of Greek democracy.

The main objectives are:

1. To shed light on the strong association in Greek thought between conditions of labour and social ranking
2. To explore how particular occupational groups were identified as bearers of distinctive cultural and political interests
3. To identify how leisure came to be seen as a key marker of elite status
4. To explore how class oppositions structured episodes of civil strife and constitutional arrangements
5. To investigate redistributive institutional arrangements as evidence of ongoing class struggle
6. To explore embodied attitudes and cultural tastes that marked class oppositions
7. To study the ideological means through which elites disqualified the working classes from political participation
8. To investigate how popular culture and morality formed the bedrock of democratic institutions
9. To shed light on how class dynamics intersected with gender, foreigners, and slavery

## Theoretical Approach

The project will favour approaches to class that can be productively integrated: Marxist approaches focusing on domination and exploitation combined with sociological approaches stressing cultural forms of group distinction.

> "Class happens when some men feel and articulate the identity of their interests as between themselves, and as against other men whose interests are different."
> — E.P. Thompson, *The Making of the English Working Class* (1963)

There are significant points of contact between E.P. Thompson's work and Pierre Bourdieu's sociology:

- **Historical Analysis**: Both understand class as something which happens in human relationships — a historical relationship involving temporal accumulation and social reproduction
- **Relational Understanding**: Both understand class oppositionally, with forms of capital becoming significant only relationally
- **Cultural Dimension**: Both stress how class-consciousness is handled in cultural terms
- **Beyond Determinism**: Both avoid economic determinism, opening the door for analysis that valorises cultural tastes and traditional values

Commit message:

Fix research strand ordering, mobile menu, and content updates
Homepage & Navigation:
- Sort research strands by number (I, II, III, IV) on homepage and footer
- Change About section title to "Class at the centre..."
- Fix mobile menu to show all tabs with proper spacing and overflow

Research Pages:
- Fix white text visibility on research strand headers
- Update color variables to new theme (stone-dark, gold, bronze)
- Sort research navigation at bottom by number

Footer:
- Add UKRI, ERC, and Edinburgh logos with proper styling
- Make logos responsive for mobile
- Sort research links by number

Project Page:
- Replace Theoretical Approach section with new comprehensive text
- Improve explanation of class as historical/relational phenomenon

Research Strands:
- Remove "to be appointed" team members, keep only named core team

Team Data:
- Update David Lewis bio to shorter version

Mobile Improvements:
- Fix menu layout with proper scrolling
- Show all navigation items with clear separators
- Display dropdown items properly
- Improve footer logo responsiveness

_pages/project.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: The Project
subtitle: A five-year investigation into the role of class dynamics in the emergence, nature, and development of ancient Greek democracy.
permalink: /project/
---

## Introduction

This project aims to put class at the centre of the historical reconstruction of ancient Greek democracy. It contends that class struggle — grounded in the economic relations and occupational structures of the Greek cities, and manifesting itself in the social, political, and cultural oppositions that characterised them — is fundamental to our understanding of Greek democracy.

This perspective finds much purchase in our Classical and Hellenistic sources, both in the direct evidence for political struggle and in contemporary reflections on Greek politics and democracy. The struggle between the rich and the poor for dominance lies at the heart of Aristotle's analysis of Greek politics, with further, complex subdivisions based on occupation determining for him the precise nature of constitutional forms.

<div class="highlight-box">
<p>For this keen observer of the politics of his day, thinking about Greek politics in terms of class was indispensable. It is therefore surprising that class has been all but abandoned as an explanatory concept by most modern scholars of ancient Greek politics.</p>
</div>

It is this project's contention that a more flexible and integrated notion of class, informed both by the best Marxist historiography (especially the work of E.P. Thompson) and by the best work in sociology (especially Pierre Bourdieu's approach), allows us to put this concept back where Aristotle placed it: at the heart of the analysis of ancient Greek politics and society.

## Objectives

The project aims to re-establish the centrality of class dynamics in Greek politics and society through engaging with other disciplines and integrating disparate scholarly trends into a new picture of the development, nature, and discourses of Greek democracy.

The main objectives are:

1. To shed light on the strong association in Greek thought between conditions of labour and social ranking
2. To explore how particular occupational groups were identified as bearers of distinctive cultural and political interests
3. To identify how leisure came to be seen as a key marker of elite status
4. To explore how class oppositions structured episodes of civil strife and constitutional arrangements
5. To investigate redistributive institutional arrangements as evidence of ongoing class struggle
6. To explore embodied attitudes and cultural tastes that marked class oppositions
7. To study the ideological means through which elites disqualified the working classes from political participation
8. To investigate how popular culture and morality formed the bedrock of democratic institutions
9. To shed light on how class dynamics intersected with gender, foreigners, and slavery

## Theoretical Approach

The project will favour approaches to class that can be productively integrated: Marxist approaches focusing on domination and exploitation combined with sociological approaches stressing cultural forms of group distinction.

> "Class happens when some men feel and articulate the identity of their interests as between themselves, and as against other men whose interests are different."
> — E.P. Thompson, *The Making of the English Working Class* (1963)

Class is approached as a historical and relational phenomenon: something that takes shape over time in social relationships, through processes of accumulation, reproduction, and conflict, rather than as a static social structure. Class positions and identities acquire meaning only in relation to one another, through opposition and differentiation.

These oppositions are grounded in economic life as it is lived and experienced—above all in conditions of labour, security and insecurity, dependency, and access to resources—which underpin the formation of class identities without mechanically determining them. Economic experience provides the material basis from which class distinctions are articulated socially, culturally, and politically.

Class struggle is therefore understood broadly. It includes relations of domination and exploitation, but is not limited to them. It also encompasses struggles over redistribution, widely conceived: over income and resources, but also over political power, public pay, honours, leisure, dignity, and institutional arrangements, insofar as these are constructed and contested in oppositional class terms.

Finally, the project treats culture and politics not as secondary "reflections" of economic relations, but as key arenas in which class identities are formed, negotiated, and fought over. Cultural practices, values, and traditions are central to how economic experiences are interpreted and mobilised, and to how class antagonisms take durable and historically specific forms.
